Kubrick was born in the Lying-In Hospital at 307 Second Avenue in Manhattan, New York City, to a Jewish family.
He was the first of two children of Jacob Leonard Kubrick (May 21, 1902 – October 19, 1985), known as Jack or Jacques,
and his wife Sadie Gertrude Kubrick (née Perveler; October 28, 1903 – April 23, 1985), known as Gert. His sister,
Barbara Mary Kubrick, was born in May 1934. Jack Kubrick, whose parents and paternal grandparents were of
Polish-Jewish, Austrian-Jewish, and Romanian-Jewish origin, was a doctor, graduating from the New York Homeopathic
Medical College in 1927, the same year he married Kubrick's mother, the child of Austrian-Jewish immigrants.
Kubrick's great-grandfather, Hersh Kubrick (also spelled Kubrik or Kubrike), arrived at Ellis Island via Liverpool
by ship on December 27, 1899, at the age of 47, leaving behind his wife and two grown children, one of whom was
Stanley's grandfather Elias, to start a new life with a younger woman. Elias Kubrick followed in 1902.
At Stanley's birth, the Kubricks lived in an apartment at 2160 Clinton Avenue in the Bronx. His parents had been
married in a Jewish ceremony, but Kubrick did not have a religious upbringing, and would later profess an atheistic
view of the universe. By the district standards of the West Bronx, the family was fairly wealthy, his father
earning a good income as a physician.
Soon after his sister's birth, Kubrick began schooling in Public School 3 in the Bronx, and moved to Public School 90
in June 1938. His IQ was discovered to be above average, but his attendance was poor, and he missed 56 days in his
first term alone, as many as he attended. He displayed an interest in literature from a young age, and began reading
Greek and Roman myths and the fables of the Grimm brothers which "instilled in him a lifelong affinity with Europe".
He spent most Saturdays during the summer watching the New York Yankees, and would later photograph two boys watching
the game in an assignment for Look magazine to emulate his own childhood excitement with baseball. When Kubrick
was 12, his father Jack taught him chess. The game remained a lifelong interest of Kubrick's, appearing in many
scenes of his films. Kubrick, who later became a member of the United States Chess Federation, explained that
chess helped him develop "patience and discipline" in making decisions. At the age of 13, Kubrick's father bought
him a Graflex camera, triggering a fascination with still photography. He befriended a neighbor, Marvin Traub, who
shared his passion for photography. Traub had his own darkroom, where the young Kubrick and he would spend many
hours perusing photographs and watching the chemicals "magically make images on photographic paper". The two
indulged in numerous photographic projects for which they roamed the streets looking for interesting subjects to
capture, and spent time in local cinemas studying films. Freelance photographer Weegee (Arthur Fellig) had a
considerable influence on Kubrick's development as a photographer; Kubrick would later hire Fellig as the special
stills photographer for Dr. Strangelove (1964). As a teenager, Kubrick was also interested in jazz, and briefly
attempted a career as a drummer.